---
title: lenskit-pack-ratings(1)
---

lenskit-pack-ratings
====================

Name
----

**lenskit pack-ratings** - pack rating data into a binary file for
efficient access.

Synopsis
--------

**lenskit** [GLOBAL OPTIONS] **pack-ratings** *OPTIONS*

Description
-----------

The `pack-ratings` command packs rating data into a binary file that
LensKit can efficiently map into memory. These files make many
recommender operations significantly faster and less memory intensive,
including model building and recommendation with certain algorithms.

Options
-------

--help
:   Show usage help.

-o *FILE*, --output-file *FILE*
:   Write the resulting recommender model to *FILE*. If not specified,
    the ratings will be packed into the file `ratings.pack`.

--no-timestamps
:   Ignore timestamps in the input data and omit them from the packed
    ratings.

This command also takes the standard [input data
options](lenskit-input-data.7.html).

Known Issues
------------

If you want timestamped data, the input data must be sorted by
timestamp. LensKit will eventually be able to sort data in the packing
process, but cannot currently do so.

See Also
--------

[**lenskit**(1)](lenskit.1.html),
[**lenskit-input-data**(7)](lenskit-input-data.7.html)

Project Information
-------------------

This command is a part of LensKit, an open source recommender systems
toolkit developed by [GroupLens Research](http://grouplens.org).
Copyright 2010-2014 Regents of the University of Minnesota and
contributors.

Work on LensKit has been funded by the National Science Foundation under
grants IIS 05-34939, 08-08692, 08-12148, and 10-17697.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

